# Virtual-Painter
Nowadays, the interaction between people and machines is mainly completed through the mouse,keyboard, remote control, touch screen, and other direct contact manners, while the communication between people is basically achieved through more natural and intuitive non-contact manner, such as sound and physical movements. Communication by natural andintuitive non-contact manner is usually considered to be flexible and efficient; many researchers have thus tried efforts to make the machine identify other intentions and information through the non-contact manner like people, such as sound, facial expressions, physical movements, and gestures. 
Among them, gesture is the most important part of human language, and Gestures play critical roles in human communication. They are considered the easiest means of communication between humans and computers gesture recognition has wide applications including sign anguage recognition, robotics and so on .gesture recognition can be simply categorized into two methods based on devices that are used to capture gestures.
We introduce a virtual paint application that uses hand gestures for real-time drawing or sketching on the canvas. Hand gesture-based paint applications can be implemented using cameras to capture hand movement. To accomplish activities like tool selection, writing on the canvas, and clearing the canvas, an intangible interface is created and implemented using vision-based real-time dynamic hand gestures. The images of the hands are taken with the system’s web camera and processed in real-time with a single-shot detector model and mediapipe, allowing the machine to communicate with its user in a fraction of a second.
